What was the word for nothing?
Nada.
And nobody?
Nadia?
Yes.
Nadia.
What was the word for more, like in more late or later?
Mas good.
So if you add mas to nada or nadie, you get else
So mas can also mean else like nadiemas.
What does that mean?
Nadia masody else.
Nobody else.
Nadamas?
Nothing else.
Good.
So how would you say I didn't eat anything else?
I didn't eat anything else.
No go me anything?
So we have the double negative, no?
So we'll say I didn't did uh nothing else.
Nothing more
No com me nada más.
Good.
No comi nada más.
I didn't eat anything else.
Good.
Didn't you eat anything else?
Speaking informally.
I forgot the informal for past.
You have the S in there which relates
to you informal and you also have the T in there good which also relates to U informal that T no but in a different way but the both in there and they will help you remember that ending comiste
Didn't you eat anything else?
No comiste nada mas.
Good.
What was to see?
I saw.
Very.
Yeah, sorry.
V.
good.
You got the ending right?
He saw
Vio.
Good.
You saw speaking informally?
Viste.
We saw
Vimos.
Bimos.
And they so Vieron.
Vieron.
The accents on the air.
Yes.
Vieron.
So that's that's it.
Bi bio bimos biste vieron good.
Didn't you see me last night?
Speaking informally, didn't you see me last night?
No me viste anoche.
Good.
Time in the sense of occasion, no?
Like when we say once, we mean one time.
Or when we say again, we mean another time, is this, this, V-E-Z.
So in Spain this will sound like Beth, this
Ves.
This is a feminine word.
So how would you say it one time or once?
Una vez.
So how would you say I saw him once
Lovi una vez.
Good.
How would you say I saw them once?
Los vi una vez.
Good.
They saw them once.
Los vieron una vez.
Good.
How do you think you would say one more time?
One more time.
How do you think you would say that?
Una vez
Yes, una vez mas good.
So you could say something like I want to see them one more time.
I want to see them one more time.
How would you say that?
Good.
Quiero verlos una vez más.
I want to see them one more time, once more.
What was the word for we?
The word for we
Nosotros.
Nosotros, good.
Now nosotros is actually the combination of nos, like how we have in us.
and odoros, which means others.
So we is kind of like us, others.
How would you say
Another time.
And you don't say another time in Spanish.
You just say other time.
So you don't need an.
So another time
Otra vez.
Good.
We can take this otros.
We can work backwards to get otra vez otra vez.
So you can use this like again, no?
Otra vez another time.
So you could say I want to see them again.
I want to see them again
Quiero verlos otra vez.
Good.
What was to leave or to go out?
Salir.
Salir, good.
And what was to dance related to Balerina?
Bailar.
So how would you ask informally?
Did you go out to dance again?
Speaking informally
Saliste a bailar otra vez.
Very good.
Saliste a because we have this verb of emotion of coming and going.
Saliste a bailar otra vez.
Good
What was to speak?
Ablar.
And I spoke?
Abl.
Able.
He spoke, she spoke, it spoke, you fumal spoke.
You informal hablaste and they
Ablaron.
Ablaron, well done.
To arrive, to arrive was Jegar.
How would you say you arrived informally?
Jaguste.
Did you arrive late again?
Did you arrive late again
So Ycaste Tarde Otraves?
Good.
Did you arrive late again?
What was my house?
Mikasa.
How would you say he arrived late to my house again?
So he arrived late to my house again
Llegó tarde a mi casa otra vez.
This is a flexible.
How would you say he arrived at my house again wanting to speak with me?
He arrived at my house to my house again wanting to speak with me.
Llegó a mi casa otra vez.
Very good, wanting.
to want, to query.
Yes.
So queriendo queriendo hablar conmigo.
Good.
Llegó a mi casa otra vez queriendo hablar conmigo.
So we saw that we don't use the ing in Spanish nearly half as much as we do in English.
In English, we really overuse the ing, but this is one situation where we do want it.
In structures like this.
He arrived at my house again wanting to speak with me.
So my house is mi casa.
Your house
speaking informally is tu casa tu casa tukasa you might have heard the expression mikasa is tukasa what does that mean my house is your house
If you want to say at what time, you say at what hour.
How would that be?
Ake ora.
Ora.
Here we use aura.
Ake ora.
Good.
So how would you say at what time did they arrive at your house to your house?
At what time did they arrive at your house
Good.
Aquora llegaron a tu casa.
Very good.
At what time did they arrive at your house or to your house?
Good.
If you say a la ves, ala ves, it means at the same time.
Like in English when we say at a time.
Alla ves, two at the time, we can say in English, this is at the time, at the same time.
Ala ves.
So you might want to say everybody arrived at my house at the same time.
What was the word for all?
Todo.
Good.
If you make this plural, todos, you get uh everybody.
Everybody.
Or you might also hear in Spanish, todo el mundo, or the world.
to say everybody but todos is very common so everybody arrived at my house at the same time
Todos llegaron a mi casa a la vez.
Those later a la vez at my casa, flexible.
What was to find or to encounter?
And I found Encontre.
Encontre.
I didn't find anything else in your house.
What was your house again?
Tukasa.
Tukasa, good.
I didn't find anything else, nothing more in your house.
I didn't find anything else in your house.
No encontré nada más in tu casa.
Good.
I didn't find anything else in your house.
No encontré nada más in tu casa.
Good.
So we have mi casa, tu casa.
Now the word for our is nuestro.
Our house is nuestra casa.
Nuestra casa.
We can see the old splitting of nosotros there in nuestro, nuestra.
So that's our.
So how would you say did you visit our house?
What is to visit?
Visitation.
Visitacion.
Visitar.
Good.
So did you visit our house speaking informally?
Visitaste nuestra casa.
Good.
Visitas de nuestra casa.
Did you visit our house?
How would you say we are with our friends?
How do you think you would say that?
We are with our friends.
We are with what to be do you think we will use
Star.
Estar, because we are with no location.
Good.
So we are with our friends.
What if we meant all female friends?
Estamos con nuestras amigas.
Good.
How would you say I am with my friends?
I am with my friends.
Estoy con mis amigos.
Yes.
So the words for possession, mi, tu, nuestro, can change for number to match the number
Mi amigo, mis amigos.
And if it ends in O, like nuestro, it can change for gender as well.
Nuestro amigo, nuestra amiga.
So we have mi, my, tu, yo, nuestro or nuestra au for his, hers, their, yours speaking formally.
For all of that, we have the same word which is su.
Su.
S U.
So how would you say I want to go to his house?
I want to go to his house.
Quiero ir à su casa.
Good.
Quiero ir a su casa.
I want to go to his house.
How would you say I want to go to their house?
Quiero ir a su casa.
Good.
So it's the same
If you put it in plural or not, refers to the things that are possessed, not the possessors.
So avoid any temptation to say sus because you mean they.
You're only going to say sus if you're saying houses
for example so if you were to say I want to go to their houses there you can put it in plural how would that be
Quiero ir a sus casas.
Good.
And I want to go to his houses.
I want to go to his houses.
Quiero ir a sus casas.
Exactly the same.
So these possessive words me tu nuestro su
They refer to the thing being possessed rather than the possessor when they're changing.
If you want to say my own house, if you want to say my own house or my very own house
You can say mi propria casa.
Like property.
Mi propria casa.
Good.
How would you say my own car?
Mi propio auto.
Good.
The word for I in Spanish, not I is in your, I is in the the two things in your head.
Is Uho, Uho, O J O, Uho.
Uho.
How would you say my own eyes?
My own eyes.
There's some kind of disagreements going on in there.
Mis.
Good.
So I saw it with my own eyes.
I saw it with my own eyes.
Lovey
Con mis proprios ojos.
Good.
Lobi con mis propios ojos.
Very good.
How would you say I want to live in my own house?
I want to live in my own house.
Quiero vivir in my propio casa.
Good.
Quiero vivir in my propia casa.
I want to live in my own house.
Good.